Add collectionview docs - first part (#762)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/collectionview/scrolling.md

---
title: Scrolling
page_title: .NET MAUI CollectionView Documentation - Scrolling
description: Try now the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI CollectionView Scrolling options like the Vertical Scrollbar and programmatic scrolling with the ScrollTo method.
position: 5
slug: collectionview-scrolling
tags: programmatic, scrolling, scrollbar
---

# .NET MAUI CollectionView Scrolling

> The users can vertically and horizontally scroll through the item in the CollectionView and also scroll to an item from the collection. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The users can scroll vertically and horizontally through the items in the CollectionView and also scroll to a specific item from the collection. 
```

The following example demonstrates how to scroll to an item in the CollectionView control by using the `ScrollItemIntoView()` method.

**1.** Create a sample `DataModel`:

<snippet id='collectionview-datamodel' />

**2.** Define the `ViewModel` class:

<snippet id='collectionview-viewmodel' />

**3.** Define the `RadCollectionView` in XAML:

<snippet id='collectionview-programmatic-scrolling-xaml'/>

**4.** Add the `telerik` namespace:

```XAML
xmlns:telerik="http://schemas.telerik.com/2022/xaml/maui"
```

**5.** Button clicked event handler for calling the `ScrollTo` method:

<snippet id='collectionview-programmatic-scrolling'/>

This is the result on WinUI:

![.NET MAUI CollectionView Scrolling](images/collectionview-scrolling.gif "Telerik .NET MAUI CollectionView")

> For a runnable demo with the CollectionView Programmatic Scrolling example, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to the **CollectionView > Scrolling** category.

> ## Events

Reviewer: Doesn't this belong in the Events article?

Author: i have also listed the event in the scrolling article, as the event is an important part of the Scrolling feature.
